You know, it, tell us a little bit more about what it does
and what the process has gotta be for it will be helpful.
So, I'm Carolina Durrant.
I'm the Manager of Aviation Policy at
the Ministry of Transcript.
Uh, good morning. I'm Ken Hopper,
senior licensing advisor in the Ministry of Train School.
Good Morning. I'm Carly, er, I'm from the Ministry
of Foreign Affairs and Trade,
and I'm the International legal Advice for
Treaties. Right.
Brilliant. Okay. Okay.
Right. So, um,
international E Services are a key enabler of tourism and trade.
Um, international EA services agreements provide the
settings for these international E services.
And our preferred approach is
to create the most open operating environment for airlines
by adopting an Open Skies agreement.
Kevin, you will explain why we're here today.
Uh, thank you. So we are here today
because, um, in 2019 we started a pro, uh,
a process with Ian to negotiate a air services agreement
with Ian as a group.
Uh, we have air services agreements with each of the 10, uh,
Ian members, not putting aside 10
or which is has a joined, uh,
since this process has started, uh,
there are three main reasons why we look to do an agreement
with Ian as a whole.
One is that, um, our tier agreements with Ian,
uh, range from among our most liberal, the likes
of Singapore, uh, Malaysia, Cambodia among some
of our least liberal, sorry, I'm talking the likes of, um,
Indonesia, Philippines, Vietnam.
So what we thought is if we negotiated with, with RC
as a whole, we may be able to lift the overall quality
of our agreements.
So raising the right, the level of those lower ones
was the higher range.
Uh, another thing is the air services agreements,
although they're largely standard documents,
they do differ in detail.
So things like, um, aviation safety provisions,
aviation security provisions, uh, ownership
and control provisions, tariffs, customs,
doing business, they differ.
Uh, so we thought, well, if we have one agreement with all
of the s we would standardize all
of those provisions across the 10 Ian members.
And then the third reason was just like a, a general, uh,
raising the overall quality
of the New Zealand Aian relationship.
Okay. That's, that's helpful.
So what we've got in here, you would regard
as being a liberal document where you talked about,
you know, some being liberal and some being more
Restrictive. Uh, it's
more liberal than, well, it's say with the likes
of, um, what we currently have with, uh, Vietnam
or Indonesia or, um, the Philippines, it is more liberal.
Obviously the highest standard is Open Skies. Yeah.
Which is what we have, say for example,
with the United States,
with the United Kingdom, with Australia.
So it doesn't reach that level.
And that's because, um, some
of our Ian partners did not share that level of ambition.
So that meant that we weren't able to reach that high level.
That's where we to get,
but we, we reached as close as we could get.
Okay. Questions, colleagues,
I'll ask one then to, to, so Open Skies just, you know,
because this is not a familiar, I just asking question
that you all know the answers to.
So could you just tell us what Open Skies means as opposed
to something what we've got there?
What, what are, what are the differences?
Okay. So Open Skies agreements, um, are as New Zealand's,
uh, standard negotiating staff when we're,
um, meeting with someone.
So Open Skies essentially means that the airlines
of each side can operate as often as they like,
they can operate over any route that they wish
and they can carry any traffic.
Anything that derogate from
that is not an Open Skies agreement.
So for example, we might have an agreement that says, uh,
rather than the airlines being able to operate as often
as they, like, they can only do a maximum
of five flights per week.
Yeah. Or whichever, or any other number.
Uh, there may be a restriction on the
route so they can operate.
So you might say, um, you can operate to the United States,
but you can't operate to the United States.
Me this as an example, but you can't operate via any point
in Asia, for example.
So you could go to the United States via Fiji,
but you couldn't go to the United States via Japan.
So it'd be a routing restriction.
And then there's, uh, traffic right.
Restrictions as well, which comes back to the, the freedoms
of the air, which starts to get a bit arcane.
But there is a, um, a diagram, uh,
with the national interest analysis.
So what's, what's restricted in this one?
It's not, uh, there, there are a number not imposed by us
because they say we are, we try to get them, uh, yeah, get,
but for example, um, Indonesia has said that, uh,
we can operate services, uh, beyond Indonesia,
but we can't operate in the, say via Jakarta.
For example, if we wanted to go fair New Zealand,
for example, wanted to go to India via Indonesia,
it can't go Auckland, Jakarta, Mumbai,
but it can go Auckland, Madan, Mumbai.
Okay. And that's that.
So that's what's the kind of nature of what's,
That's the nature of it. Yes.
Okay. Right. Cool. Carlos,
Can I just ask like, um, obviously we got the,
the draft agreement in front of us, like are you saying
that we don't have signed any document with them before?
So this is a complete new thing
or with just, uh, uh, extension of renewal?
So we have, um, air services agreements
with all T-N-R-C-R.
So we've had, some of them are long existing.
The most recent one that, that we did was with Myanmar, uh,
which was signed in 2019.
And we did that because
before we entered into this whole process, we wanted
to make sure that we had underlying agreements with all
of the RCR members.
So in the unfortunate event, the agreement we've negotiated
were to, to fall over, we could go back
to the underlying agreements.
We still have a, um, a basis for air services.
So this mean that we already have agreement
with the individual country.
We do, and now we want to do it to sign another one, uh,
as the association is, is that correct?
Yes. It, it supersedes the ones that we have already.
So my, my question is, is the current existing agreement
with individual nations are different with the one here
or they, are they pretty much identical
or same, same course and condition? Uh,
I suppose my answer to that would be to go back to
what I was saying earlier about, um, we have
existing agreements with each of the 10
as young members, but they differ.
Yes. So we look to standardize them
by having the one agreement
that was supersede those 10 agreements.
So for example, if, if we were to have a, um,
a near services once this is signed and ratable
or has been signed once it's ratified into the future,
if we had an issue, for example, with, with, um, Indonesia,
we would look to the agreement with Ian.
It's what the answer is.
We wouldn't look to our agreement with Indonesia
because then end of the agreement
with Indonesia would then be superseded by this agreement.
So does that mean that this new agreement will overrule
the period agreement like individual, individual
with other national or they are
actually working at the same time?
No, They don't work at the same time.
They go at the same time. Yeah.
So, so what's happened with two different version now,
like you're saying that, you know,
obviously when we signed the agreement with the 10 Nation,
they are all different.
And now we got another,
a third version coming up here like that.
So when things goes wrong, which one we base on?
Uh, so the one that would be the, that you would turn
to would be this, this agreement with rcr this,
But not the individual nature,
Not the individual ones, no.
Mm-hmm. So, uh, thank you.
Uh, does the agreement allow for, uh,
global entry type systems
where pre-approved low risk travelers, uh, can,
can get a, a simplified pathway in
and out of these SEM countries?
Is that something that's been considered?
Uh, it'd be outside the scope of this.
Okay. So it's literally for access
to airports and landing. Yeah,
It, it's, it it's
for the airlines rather than for the passengers. Yep.
Yeah. And well, I guess, well I guess you, you raised
as part of your, um, opening commentary that, um,
border control procedures, customs,
and all of these other things are up,
are often part of these agreements.
So I, my question is, you know,
is there capacity within this framework to allow
for expedited entry for trusted travelers?
Uh,
I would've, to come back on that, my, my feeling is
that this agreement is really about the year services.
They all have customs provisions,
but at the end of the day, the operational aspects
of things like customs, immigration, biosecurity,
while they're treated at very high level
and year services agreements really comes down to, um,
what those, the individual customs, immigration, uh,
biosecurity and them and their processes.
That's fine. You don't need to come back. Yeah. Thanks.
Two. So two questions from me.
Um, I'm looking on this side
as well, see if there's any other questions.
The first one, and say this is different to
what we've got with others.
So let's, does this in any way, um, say the,
the relationship with Singapore in this agreement?
I'll pick Singapore as, because that's one of the mm-hmm.
Highest level ones you said. Mm-hmm.
Um, is it in any way different than what the agreement
with Singapore is given that?
So we don't want, I get the raising up. Yeah.
The less good ones. We don't wanna pull down
the, the highest ones
No. There
grandfathering
And the grandfathering is, is put into here.
Yeah. In this agreement. Okay. That's fine. Okay.
Um, and second question is, who are Coeg,
who's the cos signatory or co-sign trees?
Does that mean every single one of those 10 countries
agreement, or is it just, um, as CN as an all
as a collective body that signs it?
Uh, it'd be signed by each of the as CN members.
Okay. So it's signed by 10 Yeah, 10 plus general members.
Okay. That's cool. Any other questions?
Any other questions we should ask?
I hold or, or is there anything really to be aware,
I suppose?
Um, obviously the reason that we are here is
because this is a multilateral agreement.
Mm-hmm. Uh, mostly the services agreements
are bilateral agreements.
And if it was a bilateral agreement, we would go
to joint ministers, we'd go to the Minister
of Foreign Affairs and the Minister
of Transport to get sign off.
And that's because, um,
cabinet itself decided quite some years ago,
air services agreements are, are pretty, uh,
are standard documents.
They're non-controversial.
Uh, so whereas the one go to cabinet for a mandate
to negotiate, we had to go back to cabinet
to get sign off on an agreement.
Cabinet said, non-controversial area, we'll delegate this
to the Minister of Foreign Affairs in consultation
with the Minister of Transport or the other way around.
Uh, and if this hadn't been a multilateral agreement,
we would've taken it to those two ministers.
So, so just either from you
or from Jonathan in terms
of the process from here, what happens with this?
Uh, so committee just report back.
So we just write a report saying, this looks all,
this all looks good or whatever, effectively.
Yeah. Um, or we've seen some minefields in it.
Um, you know, so, and that's, so that's what we do.
So we report it back to the house and then,
and then the government rat package.
Yeah. And it, does it need to be ratified by the house
or is it, is it just the executive at Ratify?
Uh, it's the executive Executive. Okay. Got right.
Nothing else. No, no. Look very much appreciated.
Thank you very much. This is a new one on us.
Um, you know, we appreciate it.
Always learning a little bit. Mm, thank you.
Thank, thank you. Thank you. Thank.